# Query Analytics of Big Climate Data
A High Performance Spatial Web Portal for Query Analytics of Big Climate Data

Observations, model simulations, and reanalysis produce vast amounts of climate data. The unprecedented data volume and intrinsic complexity of geospatial statistics and analysis requires efficient analysis to investigate global problems such as climate change, natural disasters, diseases, and other environmental issues. However, this requirement poses grand challenges due to the unprecedented data volume and intrinsic complexity of geospatial statistics and analysis. Addressing these challenges requires efficient data management strategies, complex parallel algorithms and scalable computing resources. These challenges result in a noticeable gap between the vast amount of data and user communities.  Existing solutions are not sufficient to bridge the gap because they 1) lack flexibility. Most climate analysis tools (web-based or standalone) only allow users to conduct analysis using pre-built operations, and provide non-customizable functions and operations; and 2) have limitations in handling multi-dimensional, large-scale climate data since they lack the seamless integration of parallel computing and geospatial analytical functions.

To bridge the gap and strength the ties between climate data (providers) and user communities, in this project we prototype a high performance spatial web portal for parallel query analytics of big climate data. The back-end of the web portal is built upon two core technologies developed by the investigators including 1) a spatiotemporal indexing for efficient climate data management and access with Hadoop MapReduce (Li et al., 2016) and, and 2) a spatiotemporal query analytical framework for parallel aggregation and analysis of climate data with Hadoop Hive (Li et al., 2017). In this project, we further developed query analytical middleware with 1) a hybrid query engine integrating Cloudera Impala (for record-based data) and Hive (for array-based data), and 2) a multi-level caching mechanism to aggregate and cache the original data at different spatiotemporal scales. In addition, we extended the default Hive/Impala SQL with two new keywords AOI = REGION, VISUALIZE AS to better support both server side parallel processing and client side data visualization.  
